# Federated
## PBM-VFL: Vertical Federated Learning with Feature and Sample Privacy
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.13916v1
- **Authors**: ['Linh Tran', 'Timothy Castiglia', 'Stacy Patterson', 'Ana Milanova']
- **Abstrat**: We present Poisson Binomial Mechanism Vertical Federated Learning (PBM-VFL), a communication-efficient Vertical Federated Learning algorithm with Differential Privacy guarantees. PBM-VFL combines Secure Multi-Party Computation with the recently introduced Poisson Binomial Mechanism to protect parties' private datasets during model training. We define the novel concept of feature privacy and analyze end-to-end feature and sample privacy of our algorithm. We compare sample privacy loss in VFL with privacy loss in HFL. We also provide the first theoretical characterization of the relationship between privacy budget, convergence error, and communication cost in differentially-private VFL. Finally, we empirically show that our model performs well with high levels of privacy.





## Privacy-Preserving Personalized Federated Prompt Learning for Multimodal Large Language Models
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.13904v1
- **Authors**: ['Linh Tran', 'Wei Sun', 'Stacy Patterson', 'Ana Milanova']
- **Abstrat**: Multimodal Large Language Models (LLMs) are pivotal in revolutionizing customer support and operations by integrating multiple modalities such as text, images, and audio. Federated Prompt Learning (FPL) is a recently proposed approach that combines pre-trained multimodal LLMs such as vision-language models with federated learning to create personalized, privacy-preserving AI systems. However, balancing the competing goals of personalization, generalization, and privacy remains a significant challenge. Over-personalization can lead to overfitting, reducing generalizability, while stringent privacy measures, such as differential privacy, can hinder both personalization and generalization. In this paper, we propose a Differentially Private Federated Prompt Learning (DP-FPL) approach to tackle this challenge by leveraging a low-rank adaptation scheme to capture generalization while maintaining a residual term that preserves expressiveness for personalization. To ensure privacy, we introduce a novel method where we apply local differential privacy to the two low-rank components of the local prompt, and global differential privacy to the global prompt. Our approach mitigates the impact of privacy noise on the model performance while balancing the tradeoff between personalization and generalization. Extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach over other benchmarks.





## Federated Granger Causality Learning for Interdependent Clients with State Space Representation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.13890v1
- **Authors**: ['Ayush Mohanty', 'Nazal Mohamed', 'Paritosh Ramanan', 'Nagi Gebraeel']
- **Abstrat**: Advanced sensors and IoT devices have improved the monitoring and control of complex industrial enterprises. They have also created an interdependent fabric of geographically distributed process operations (clients) across these enterprises. Granger causality is an effective approach to detect and quantify interdependencies by examining how one client's state affects others over time. Understanding these interdependencies captures how localized events, such as faults and disruptions, can propagate throughout the system, possibly causing widespread operational impacts. However, the large volume and complexity of industrial data pose challenges in modeling these interdependencies. This paper develops a federated approach to learning Granger causality. We utilize a linear state space system framework that leverages low-dimensional state estimates to analyze interdependencies. This addresses bandwidth limitations and the computational burden commonly associated with centralized data processing. We propose augmenting the client models with the Granger causality information learned by the server through a Machine Learning (ML) function. We examine the co-dependence between the augmented client and server models and reformulate the framework as a standalone ML algorithm providing conditions for its sublinear and linear convergence rates. We also study the convergence of the framework to a centralized oracle model. Moreover, we include a differential privacy analysis to ensure data security while preserving causal insights. Using synthetic data, we conduct comprehensive experiments to demonstrate the robustness of our approach to perturbations in causality, the scalability to the size of communication, number of clients, and the dimensions of raw data. We also evaluate the performance on two real-world industrial control system datasets by reporting the volume of data saved by decentralization.




