# Federated
## Correlated Privacy Mechanisms for Differentially Private Distributed Mean Estimation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2407.03289v2
- **Authors**: ['Sajani Vithana', 'Viveck R. Cadambe', 'Flavio P. Calmon', 'Haewon Jeong']
- **Abstrat**: Differentially private distributed mean estimation (DP-DME) is a fundamental building block in privacy-preserving federated learning, where a central server estimates the mean of $d$-dimensional vectors held by $n$ users while ensuring $(\epsilon,\delta)$-DP. Local differential privacy (LDP) and distributed DP with secure aggregation (SA) are the most common notions of DP used in DP-DME settings with an untrusted server. LDP provides strong resilience to dropouts, colluding users, and adversarial attacks, but suffers from poor utility. In contrast, SA-based DP-DME achieves an $O(n)$ utility gain over LDP in DME, but requires increased communication and computation overheads and complex multi-round protocols to handle dropouts and attacks. In this work, we present a generalized framework for DP-DME, that captures LDP and SA-based mechanisms as extreme cases. Our framework provides a foundation for developing and analyzing a variety of DP-DME protocols that leverage correlated privacy mechanisms across users. To this end, we propose CorDP-DME, a novel DP-DME mechanism based on the correlated Gaussian mechanism, that spans the gap between DME with LDP and distributed DP. We prove that CorDP-DME offers a favorable balance between utility and resilience to dropout and collusion. We provide an information-theoretic analysis of CorDP-DME, and derive theoretical guarantees for utility under any given privacy parameters and dropout/colluding user thresholds. Our results demonstrate that (anti) correlated Gaussian DP mechanisms can significantly improve utility in mean estimation tasks compared to LDP -- even in adversarial settings -- while maintaining better resilience to dropouts and attacks compared to distributed DP.




