# Federated
## Private Federated Learning In Real World Application -- A Case Study
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.04565v2
- **Authors**: ['An Ji', 'Bortik Bandyopadhyay', 'Congzheng Song', 'Natarajan Krishnaswami', 'Prabal Vashisht', 'Rigel Smiroldo', 'Isabel Litton', 'Sayantan Mahinder', 'Mona Chitnis', 'Andrew W Hill']
- **Abstrat**: This paper presents an implementation of machine learning model training using private federated learning (PFL) on edge devices. We introduce a novel framework that uses PFL to address the challenge of training a model using users' private data. The framework ensures that user data remain on individual devices, with only essential model updates transmitted to a central server for aggregation with privacy guarantees. We detail the architecture of our app selection model, which incorporates a neural network with attention mechanisms and ambiguity handling through uncertainty management. Experiments conducted through off-line simulations and on device training demonstrate the feasibility of our approach in real-world scenarios. Our results show the potential of PFL to improve the accuracy of an app selection model by adapting to changes in user behavior over time, while adhering to privacy standards. The insights gained from this study are important for industries looking to implement PFL, offering a robust strategy for training a predictive model directly on edge devices while ensuring user data privacy.





## A Fair Federated Learning Framework for Collaborative Network Traffic Prediction and Resource Allocation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.06743v1
- **Authors**: ['Saroj Kumar Panda', 'Tania Panayiotou', 'Georgios Ellinas', 'Sadananda Behera']
- **Abstrat**: In the beyond 5G era, AI/ML empowered realworld digital twins (DTs) will enable diverse network operators to collaboratively optimize their networks, ultimately improving end-user experience. Although centralized AI-based learning techniques have been shown to achieve significant network traffic accuracy, resulting in efficient network operations, they require sharing of sensitive data among operators, leading to privacy and security concerns. Distributed learning, and specifically federated learning (FL), that keeps data isolated at local clients, has emerged as an effective and promising solution for mitigating such concerns. Federated learning poses, however, new challenges in ensuring fairness both in terms of collaborative training contributions from heterogeneous data and in mitigating bias in model predictions with respect to sensitive attributes. To address these challenges, a fair FL framework is proposed for collaborative network traffic prediction and resource allocation. To demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach, noniid and imbalanced federated datasets based on real-word traffic traces are utilized for an elastic optical network. The assumption is that different optical nodes may be managed by different operators. Fairness is evaluated according to the coefficient of variations measure in terms of accuracy across the operators and in terms of quality-of-service across the connections (i.e., reflecting end-user experience). It is shown that fair traffic prediction across the operators result in fairer resource allocations across the connections.




