# Federated
## ML Mule: Mobile-Driven Context-Aware Collaborative Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.07536v1
- **Authors**: ['Haoxiang Yu', 'Javier Berrocal', 'Christine Julien']
- **Abstrat**: Artificial intelligence has been integrated into nearly every aspect of daily life, powering applications from object detection with computer vision to large language models for writing emails and compact models in smart homes. These machine learning models cater to individual users but are often detached from them, as they are typically stored and processed in centralized data centers. This centralized approach raises privacy concerns, incurs high infrastructure costs, and struggles with personalization. Federated and fully decentralized learning methods have been proposed to address these issues, but they still depend on centralized servers or face slow convergence due to communication constraints. To overcome these challenges, we propose ML Mule, a approach that utilizes individual mobile devices as 'Mules' to train and transport model snapshots as they move through physical spaces, sharing these models with the physical 'Spaces' they inhabit. This method implicitly forms affinity groups among devices associated with users who share particular spaces, enabling collaborative model evolution, and protecting users' privacy. Our approach addresses several major shortcomings of traditional, federated, and fully decentralized learning systems. The proposed framework represents a new class of machine learning methods that are more robust, distributed, and personalized, bringing the field closer to realizing the original vision of intelligent, adaptive, and genuinely context-aware smart environments. The results show that ML Mule converges faster and achieves higher model accuracy compared to other existing methods.




